.TH TB 8 "2019 June 24" CodeFetch "TunnelBridge"

.SH NAME
tb - set and retrieve configuration of TunnelBridge interfaces

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tb
[
.I COMMAND
] [
.I OPTIONS
]... [
.I ARGS
]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B tb
is the configuration utility for getting and setting the configuration of
TunnelBridge interfaces. The interfaces themselves can be added and removed
using
.BR ip-link (8)
The
.B tb
utility provides a series of sub-commands for changing TunnelBridge-specific
aspects of TunnelBridge interfaces.

If no COMMAND is specified, COMMAND defaults to
.BR show .
Sub-commands that take an INTERFACE must be passed a TunnelBridge interface.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fBshow\fP { \fI<interface>\fP | \fIall\fP | \fIinterfaces\fP } [\fIpublic-key\fP | \fIprivate-key\fP | \fIlisten-port\fP | \fIpeers\fP | \fIpreshared-keys\fP | \fIendpoints\fP | \fIlatest-handshakes\fP | \fIpersistent-keepalive\fP | \fItransfer\fP | \fIdump\fP]
Shows current TunnelBridge configuration and runtime information of specified \fI<interface>\fP.
If no \fI<interface>\fP is specified, \fI<interface>\fP defaults to \fIall\fP.
If \fIinterfaces\fP is specified, prints a list of all TunnelBridge interfaces,
one per line, and quit. If no options are given after the interface
specification, then prints a list of all attributes in a visually pleasing way
meant for the terminal. Otherwise, prints specified information grouped by
newlines and tabs, meant to be used in scripts. For this script-friendly display,
if \fIall\fP is specified, then the first field for all categories of information
is the interface name. If \fPdump\fP is specified, then several lines are printed;
the first contains in order separated by tab: private-key, public-key, listen-port.
Subsequent lines are printed for each peer and contain in order separated
by tab: public-key, preshared-key, endpoint, allowed-ips, latest-handshake,
transfer-rx, transfer-tx, persistent-keepalive.
.TP
\fBshowconf\fP \fI<interface>\fP
Shows the current configuration of \fI<interface>\fP in the format described
by \fICONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT\fP below.
.TP
\fBset\fP \fI<interface>\fP [\fIlisten-port\fP \fI<port>\fP] [\fIprivate-key\fP \fI<file-path>\fP] [\fIpeer\fP \fI<base64-public-key>\fP [\fIremove\fP] [\fIpreshared-key\fP \fI<file-path>\fP] [\fIendpoint\fP \fI<ip>:<port>\fP] [\fIpersistent-keepalive\fP \fI<interval seconds>\fP] ...
Sets configuration values for the specified \fI<interface>\fP. Multiple
\fIpeer\fPs may be specified, and if the \fIremove\fP argument is given
for a peer, that peer is removed, not configured. If \fIlisten-port\fP
is not specified, the port will be chosen randomly when the
interface comes up. Both \fIprivate-key\fP and \fIpreshared-key\fP must
be files, because command line arguments are not considered private on
most systems but if you are using
.BR bash (1),
you may safely pass in a string by specifying as \fIprivate-key\fP or
\fIpreshared-key\fP the expression: <(echo PRIVATEKEYSTRING). If
\fI/dev/null\fP or another empty file is specified as the filename for
either \fIprivate-key\fP or \fIpreshared-key\fP, the key is removed from
the device. The use of \fIpreshared-key\fP is optional, and may be omitted;
it adds an additional layer of symmetric-key cryptography to be mixed into
the already existing public-key cryptography, for post-quantum resistance.
If \fIallowed-ips\fP is specified, but the value is the empty string, all
allowed ips are removed from the peer. The use of \fIpersistent-keepalive\fP
is optional and is by default off; setting it to 0 or "off" disables it.
Otherwise it represents, in seconds, between 1 and 65535 inclusive, how often
to send an authenticated empty packet to the peer, for the purpose of keeping
a stateful firewall or NAT mapping valid persistently. For example, if the
interface very rarely sends traffic, but it might at anytime receive traffic
from a peer, and it is behind NAT, the interface might benefit from having a
persistent keepalive interval of 25 seconds; however, most users will not need
this.
.TP
\fBsetconf\fP \fI<interface>\fP \fI<configuration-filename>\fP
Sets the current configuration of \fI<interface>\fP to the contents of
\fI<configuration-filename>\fP, which must be in the format described
by \fICONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT\fP below.
.TP
\fBaddconf\fP \fI<interface>\fP \fI<configuration-filename>\fP
Appends the contents of \fI<configuration-filename>\fP, which must
be in the format described by \fICONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT\fP below,
to the current configuration of \fI<interface>\fP.
.TP
\fBgenkey\fP
Generates a random \fIprivate\fP key in base64 and prints it to
standard output.
.TP
\fBgenpsk\fP
Generates a random \fIpreshared\fP key in base64 and prints it to
standard output.
.TP
\fBpubkey\fP
Calculates a \fIpublic\fP key and prints it in base64 to standard
output from a corresponding \fIprivate\fP key (generated with
\fIgenkey\fP) given in base64 on standard input.

A private key and a corresponding public key may be generated at once by calling:
.br
    $ umask 077
.br
    $ tb genkey | tee private.key | tb pubkey > public.key
.TP
\fBhelp\fP
Show usage message.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
The configuration file format is based on \fIINI\fP. There are two top level sections
-- \fIInterface\fP and \fIPeer\fP. Multiple \fIPeer\fP sections may be specified, but
only one \fIInterface\fP section may be specified.

.P
The \fIInterface\fP section may contain the following fields:
.IP \(bu
PrivateKey \(em a base64 private key generated by \fItb genkey\fP. Required.
.IP \(bu
ListenPort \(em a 16-bit port for listening. Optional; if not specified, chosen
randomly.
.P
The \fIPeer\fP sections may contain the following fields:
.IP \(bu
PublicKey \(em a base64 public key calculated by \fItb pubkey\fP from a
private key, and usually transmitted out of band to the author of the
configuration file. Required.
.IP \(bu
PresharedKey \(em a base64 preshared key generated by \fItb genpsk\fP. Optional,
and may be omitted. This option adds an additional layer of symmetric-key
cryptography to be mixed into the already existing public-key cryptography,
for post-quantum resistance.
.IP \(bu
Endpoint \(em an endpoint IP or hostname, followed by a colon, and then a
port number. This endpoint will be updated automatically to the most recent
source IP address and port of correctly authenticated packets from the peer.
Optional.
.IP \(bu
PersistentKeepalive \(em a seconds interval, between 1 and 65535 inclusive, of
how often to send an authenticated empty packet to the peer for the purpose of keeping a
stateful firewall or NAT mapping valid persistently. For example, if the interface
very rarely sends traffic, but it might at anytime receive traffic from a peer,
and it is behind NAT, the interface might benefit from having a persistent keepalive
interval of 25 seconds. If set to 0 or "off", this option is disabled. By default or
when unspecified, this option is off. Most users will not need this. Optional.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT EXAMPLE
This example may be used as a model for writing configuration files, following an
INI-like syntax. Characters after and including a '#' are considered comments and
are thus ignored.

    [Interface]
.br
    PrivateKey = yAnz5TF+lXXJte14tji3zlMNq+hd2rYUIgJBgB3fBmk=
.br
    ListenPort = 51820
.br
    
.br
    [Peer]
.br
    PublicKey = xTIBA5rboUvnH4htodjb6e697QjLERt1NAB4mZqp8Dg=
.br
    Endpoint = 192.95.5.67:1234
.br
    
.br
    [Peer]
.br
    PublicKey = TrMvSoP4jYQlY6RIzBgbssQqY3vxI2Pi+y71lOWWXX0=
.br
    Endpoint = [2607:5300:60:6b0::c05f:543]:2468
.br
    
.br
    [Peer]
.br
    PublicKey = gN65BkIKy1eCE9pP1wdc8ROUtkHLF2PfAqYdyYBz6EA=
.br
    Endpoint = tunnelbridge.derowe.com:18981

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.I TB_COLOR_MODE
If set to \fIalways\fP, always print ANSI colorized output. If set to \fInever\fP, never print ANSI colorized output. If set to \fIauto\fP, something invalid, or unset, then print ANSI colorized output only when writing to a TTY.
.TP
.I TB_HIDE_KEYS
If set to \fInever\fP, then the pretty-printing \fBshow\fP sub-command will show private and preshared keys in the output. If set to \fIalways\fP, something invalid, or unset, then private and preshared keys will be printed as "(hidden)".
.TP
.I TB_ENDPOINT_RESOLUTION_RETRIES
If set to an integer or to \fIinfinity\fP, DNS resolution for each peer's endpoint will be retried that many times for non-permanent errors, with an increasing delay between retries. If unset, the default is 15 retries.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8),
.BR ip-link (8),

.SH AUTHOR
.B tb
was written by
.MT vincent.wiemann@ironai.com
Vincent Wiemann
.ME .
For updates and more information, have a look at
.UR https://\:github.com/CodeFetch/TunnelBridge
GitHub
.UE .
